# PrologNomic

A Nomic game platform based on SWI-Prolog.

### Installation
##### Install SWI-Prolog
https://www.swi-prolog.org/Download.html

##### Clone the PrologNomic repository and initialize submodules
```
git clone https://github.com/sto0pkid/PrologNomic
cd PrologNomic
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

##### Run the node, with access through port `<port>`:
```
swipl -s primary_metainterpreter.pl --fork=no --http=<port> --interactive=true
```

##### You're all set-up
To view the game interface, point your browser to `localhost:<port>`


### How to Play
A move is made by submitting any Prolog code (actually only a limited fragment of Prolog is supported). The "Current Rules" represent the current Prolog knowledge-base. A move is a query against this knowledge base. For example, if the current ruleset is:

```
loves(alice,tacos)
loves(alice,burritos)
loves(bob,pancakes)
```

then the move `loves(alice,What)` will return the results:

```
loves(alice,tacos)
loves(alice,burritos)
```

Variables are represented as uppercase terms, for example in `loves(alice,What)`, the term alice is a literal term, but the term What is a variable that can match with any other term.

If you want to assert a new fact or rule, you do so using the `assert` keyword. For example, the move `assert(loves(bob,waffles))` will add the fact `loves(bob,waffles)` to the current rule-set. If you want to retract a fact or rule, this can be done by using the `retract` keyword instead of assert.

Rules are represented using the `:-` keyword. For example:

`parent_of(Parent,Child) :- child_of(Child,Parent).`

This can be interpreted as saying, "If Child is the child of Parent, then Parent is the parent of Child."

Requests to a node are guarded by the `io` predicate. For any input, `Input`, the following query will be executed against the current rules: `io(Input,Output)`, where `Output` is to be generated by the `io` rules and will be sent back to the caller. The `io` rules can be modified to enforce constraints on what kind of input will be accepted, and so can enforce constraints on what assertions and retractions are allowed. The ability to assert and retract rules, along with the ability to enforce limits on this ability, makes this into a nomic game instead of just a shared Prolog kb. 

For more information on Prolog, there are many tutorials available online, for example https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Prolog/Introduction 
